.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" (C) Copyright 2013 Nicos Panayides <nicosp@gmail.com>,
.\"
.TH QUANTISUSB-RNGD 8 "September 29, 2013"
.SH NAME
quantisusb-rngd \- network daemon for Quantis USB
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B quantisusb-rngd
.RI [ options ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B quantisusb-rngd
sends random bytes to any number of connected TCP clients from
all Quantis USB devices on the system. Devices may be connected
and disconnected while the daemon is running and all devices are
used to increase throughput.
.PP
.SH OPTIONS
This program follows the usual command line syntax,
with options starting with a dash (`-').
A summary of options is included below.
.TP
.B \-4
Listens to IPv4 address only.
Without this option the daemon listens for both.
.TP
.B \-6
Listens to IPv6 address only.
Without this option the daemon listens for both.
.TP
.B \-h
Show summary of options.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR \fIlevel\fR
Log Verbosity. (0 Errors, 1 Warnings, 2 Info, 3 Debug) (Default: 2)
.TP
\fB\-p\fR \fIport\fR
Port to listen to (Default: 4545)
.TP
\fB\-o\fR \fIfile\fR
Write all random numbers to this file. Used for testing.
.TP
.B \-v
Show version of program.
.PP
.SH PROTOCOL
The protocol is TCP
All integers are in network byte order (big endian).
Clients should send requests at least once every 20s.

.SS REQUEST
.TS
l l l l.
Offset	Size	Type	Description
_
0	4	uint32_t	Random bytes requested. Can be 0.
.TE

.SS RESPONSE
.TS
l l l l.
Offset	Size	Type	Description
_
0	4	uint32_t	Random bytes following. Can be 0.
4	n	bytes	Random bytes.
.TE

Please note that the number of server responses may different than the number of requests.
The only guarantee is that the server will never exceed the sum of all requested random bytes.

The server does not enforce any kind of response timeout and requests never
fail. In case a client has over 2G of pending random data the server will close the connection.

The server will always send the data in the order it was received from the hardware.
This is used for testing and to ensure that there is absolutely no difference between
receiving data from the RNG directly or through the server.
.PP
The protocol does not support encryption but it is possible to use stunnel(8) or another SSL proxy
to get encryption.

.SH SEE ALSO
.LP
.BR "stunnel(8)"

